The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the last few weeks,
there's been a lot of talk about
Medicare, with a lot of
accusations and misinformation
flying around.
So today I want to step back for
a minute and share with you some
actual facts and news
about the program.
This week, we found out that,
thanks to the health care law we
passed, nearly 5.4 million
seniors with Medicare have saved
over $4.1 billion on
prescription drugs.
That's an average of more
than $700 per person.
And this year alone, 18 million
seniors with Medicare have taken
advantage of preventive care
benefits like mammograms or
other cancer screenings that
now come at no extra cost.
That's progress.
It means that seniors everywhere
are getting the care they
need for less.
And if you have questions about
what benefits you're entitled
to, you can go to
www.medicare.gov to find out.
This news is also a reminder of
what's really at stake when we
talk about the
future of Medicare.
It's not about overheated
rhetoric at election time.
It's about a promise this
country made to our seniors that
says if you put in a
lifetime of hard work,
you shouldn't lose your home or
your life savings just because
you get sick.
Over the last 47 years, millions
of Americans have worked for
that promise.
They've earned it.
And for many seniors, the care
they've gotten through Medicare
has made all the
difference in the world.
Growing up as the
son of a single mom,
I was raised with the
help of my grandparents.
I saw how important things like
Medicare and Social Security
were in their lives.
And I saw the peace
of mind it gave them.
That's why, as President, my
goal has been to strengthen
these programs now, and preserve
them for future generations.
Because today's seniors deserve
that same peace of mind.
And the millions of Americans
who are working hard right now
deserve to know that the care
they need will be available when
they need it.
That's why, as part of
the Affordable Care Act,
we gave seniors deeper
discounts on prescription drugs,
and made sure preventive care
like mammograms are free without
a co-pay.
We've extended the life of
Medicare by almost a decade.
And I've proposed reforms that
will save Medicare money by
getting rid of wasteful spending
in the health care system and
reining in insurance
companies --
reforms that won't touch your
guaranteed Medicare benefits.
Not by a single dime.
Republicans in Congress have put
forward a very different plan.
They want to turn Medicare
into a voucher program.
That means that instead of
being guaranteed Medicare,
seniors would get a
voucher to buy insurance,
but it wouldn't
keep up with costs.
As a result, one plan would
force seniors to pay an extra
$6,400 a year for the same
benefits they get right now.
And it would effectively
end Medicare as we know it.
I think our seniors
deserve better.
I'm willing to work with anyone
to keep improving the current
system, but I refuse to do
anything that undermines the
basic idea of Medicare as
a guarantee for seniors
who get sick.
Here in America, we believe
in keeping our promises --
especially to our seniors who
have put in a lifetime of hard
work and deserve to
enjoy their golden years.
That's what Medicare
is all about.
That's why we need to
strengthen and preserve it for
future generations.
And as long as I have the honor
of serving as your President,
that's exactly what I'll do.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.